includes/_customize_storefront.md, before:

# Customize storefront

# Overview

Depending on the kind of application you integrate with Ecwid, you may want to customize user storefront in some way. For example:

* apply custom styles to the store elements (buttons, fonts, pictures etc.)
* add extra widgets, e.g. customer reviews, comments, image magnifier
* modify Ecwid widgets look and behavior
* add tracking pixels or any other third party conversion-tracking scripts at checkout page

Ecwid API allows you to attach external JavaScript and CSS scripts and load them automatically in a user storefront. Basically, it works as follows:

1. When [registering of your app in Ecwid](#register-your-app-in-ecwid), you specify https URL of the .css or .js file (or both) you'd like to be loaded in user storefront. 
2. When asking user to authorize your application, you add `customize_storefront` scope in the request to let user know your application is going to change their storefront. 
3. If the user grants your application with access to their store, the next time their storefront is loaded in any browser, the specified external JS/CSS files will be automatically loaded and executed on the page. 

<aside class="notice">
Permission required: customize_storefront (see <a href="#access-scopes">Access scopes</a>)
</aside>

Below, you will find more information on how to create custom JS/CSS.

# Custom JavaScript

> Example of custom JavaScript to modify storefront

```js
/*
 * Show a promo 'Free shipping' message on the cart page. 
 * In the example below, users will see a message on the cart page 
 * informing them that they will qualify for free shipping if their 
 * order is more than $99
 */
var promoMessage = "Orders $99 and up ship free!";
var minSubtotal = 99;

// Calculating subtotal and displaying the message
var checkSubtotal = function(order) {
  if (order) {
    var subtotal = order.total - order.shipping;
    if (subtotal < minSubtotal) {
      alert(promoMessage);
    }  
  }
}

// Detecting whether we're on the cart page and get the cart info
Ecwid.OnPageLoaded.add(function(page) {
  if ('CART' == page.type) {
    Ecwid.Cart.calculateTotal(function(order) {
      checkSubtotal(order);
    });
  }
});
```

As soon as your script is loaded on the page with Ecwid storefront, you can access the page DOM and do pretty much everything you want by means of native JavaScript or whatever framework you want. If you use a JS framework, please make sure it's already loaded on the page by the moment you start using it. 

In addition, Ecwid provides a [JavaScript API](http://help.ecwid.com/customer/portal/articles/1169548-javascript-api) that you can use to retrieve store information and track Ecwid events on the page. For example:

* `Ecwid.getOwnerId()` returns the store ID. You may want to use it to identify which store your script is loaded in now
* `Ecwid.OnPageLoad()` and `Ecwid.OnPageLoaded()` help you to track store page switch and identify which page is opened
* `Ecwid.Cart` object and its methods allow to manage the customer cart

More details: [Ecwid JavaScript API](http://help.ecwid.com/customer/portal/articles/1169548-javascript-api)

## Store-specific custom JS

> Example of the script that dynamically loads store-specific code

```js
// Load external script with store
function loadConfig(ecwidStoreId, callback) {
  var script = document.createElement("script");
  script.setAttribute("src", '//example.com/myapp/store' + ecwidStoreId + '.js');
  script.charset = "utf-8";
  script.setAttribute("type", "text/javascript");
  script.onreadystatechange = script.onload = callback;
  document.body.appendChild(script);
}

// Application functionality
function doCoolStuff() {
  //...
}

// Get Ecwid store ID and start working
loadConfig(Ecwid.getOwnerId(), doCoolStuff);
```

In most cases, your application behavior will vary depending on the store it is opened in. Although Ecwid API allows you to specify only one JS file per application, your application can detect the current Ecwid store ID and act correspondingly. Use the `Ecwid.getOwnerId()` method to detect the user store ID in your script. 

For example, let's say you need to dynamically add a store-specific configuration to your script when it's executed in some particular storefront. You can detect the store ID in your script and call a script on your server containing the store-specific code. 

# Custom CSS

> Example of custom CSS to modify storefront

```css
/*
 * Change Ecwid buttons style 
 */
button.gwt-Button, #wrapper button.gwt-Button { 
  border-radius: 13px; 
  -moz-border-radius: 13px; 
  -webkit-border-radius: 13px; 
  height: 28px; 
  background-color: #e4e4e4; 
  padding: 0 15px; 
}  
 
button.gwt-Button:active,
#wrapper button.gwt-Button:active { 
  background-color: #999999; 
}  
 
div.ecwid-productBrowser-details-rightPanel div.ecwid-productBrowser-backgroundedPanel {
  min-width:185px; 
  width:auto; 
}
```

Ecwid provides a merchant with a built-in CSS customization tool in their control panel in the 'Design' section: Ecwid automatically loads the CSS code entered by user in their storefront. This allows merchants to customize their store look and feel flexibly. See also ["How to change Ecwid design"](http://help.ecwid.com/customer/portal/articles/1083332-how-to-change-ecwid-design) article in our knowledge base.

Ecwid API allows you to do the same in more convenient way: you simply specify the URL of file with your custom CSS code and Ecwid automatically loads that code in the user storefront. So you don't need to put the CSS on user site manually or ask them to do that. 

## Store-specific custom CSS
You may want to apply different CSS codes depending on the store your application is loaded. For example, if your application provides new design themes for merchant storefront, you may need to give a merchant ability to choose the theme they want to enable and change the applied CSS code according to their choice. 

In such cases, you will need to use custom JS files to dynamically detect merchant store ID and load different styles depending on the user store ID. See [Custom JavaScript](#custom-javascript) for details.

Commit message:

Update to Storage endpoint - access via JS

includes/_customize_storefront.md, after:

# Customize storefront

# Overview

Depending on the kind of application you integrate with Ecwid, you may want to customize user storefront in some way. For example:

* apply custom styles to the store elements (buttons, fonts, pictures etc.)
* add extra widgets, e.g. customer reviews, comments, image magnifier
* modify Ecwid widgets look and behavior
* add tracking pixels or any other third party conversion-tracking scripts at checkout page

Ecwid API allows you to attach external JavaScript and CSS scripts and load them automatically in a user storefront. Basically, it works as follows:

1. When [registering of your app in Ecwid](#register-your-app-in-ecwid), you specify https URL of the .css or .js file (or both) you'd like to be loaded in user storefront. 
2. When asking user to authorize your application, you add `customize_storefront` scope in the request to let user know your application is going to change their storefront. 
3. If the user grants your application with access to their store, the next time their storefront is loaded in any browser, the specified external JS/CSS files will be automatically loaded and executed on the page. 

<aside class="notice">
Permission required: customize_storefront (see <a href="#access-scopes">Access scopes</a>)
</aside>

Below, you will find more information on how to create custom JS/CSS.

# Custom JavaScript

> Example of custom JavaScript to modify storefront

```js
/*
 * Show a promo 'Free shipping' message on the cart page. 
 * In the example below, users will see a message on the cart page 
 * informing them that they will qualify for free shipping if their 
 * order is more than $99
 */
var promoMessage = "Orders $99 and up ship free!";
var minSubtotal = 99;

// Calculating subtotal and displaying the message
var checkSubtotal = function(order) {
  if (order) {
    var subtotal = order.total - order.shipping;
    if (subtotal < minSubtotal) {
      alert(promoMessage);
    }  
  }
}

// Detecting whether we're on the cart page and get the cart info
Ecwid.OnPageLoaded.add(function(page) {
  if ('CART' == page.type) {
    Ecwid.Cart.calculateTotal(function(order) {
      checkSubtotal(order);
    });
  }
});
```

As soon as your script is loaded on the page with Ecwid storefront, you can access the page DOM and do pretty much everything you want by means of native JavaScript or whatever framework you want. If you use a JS framework, please make sure it's already loaded on the page by the moment you start using it. 

In addition, Ecwid provides a [JavaScript API](#storefront-js-api) that you can use to retrieve store information and track Ecwid events on the page. For example:

* `Ecwid.getOwnerId()` returns the store ID. You may want to use it to identify which store your script is loaded in now
* `Ecwid.OnPageLoad()` and `Ecwid.OnPageLoaded()` help you to track store page switch and identify which page is opened
* `Ecwid.Cart` object and its methods allow to manage the customer cart

More details: [Ecwid JavaScript API](#storefront-js-api)

## Client-side vs server-side approach

Applications that change storefront can be as simple as adding some custom Javascript code to a page to the ones that involve server side actions, like creating a discount coupon via [Coupons endpoint](#discount-coupons) and then passing that information to the script in the storefornt.

In case if your aplication is partly client-side, for example, it stores user data in [Storage endpoint](#application-storage) and you get that information in your storefront Javascript code, then you can access that data using `EcwidApp.getAppPublicConfig` function of [Ecwid Javascript API](#storefront-js-api) without using server side functionality.

In some cases you may want to store user data somewhere and simultaneously get that information for your storefront Javascript code. You can do that as well using these two functions from [Ecwid Javascript SDK](#ecwid-javascript-sdk): `EcwidApp.setAppPublicConfig` to store data and `EcwidApp.getAppStorage` to retrieve it in Ecwid control panel. After you saved that data, you can access it using the `EcwidApp.getAppPublicConfig` function in storefront.

Server-side applications on the other hand work in a different way: new user registers in a database of that application, so both in Ecwid Control panel and in storefront that application requests required data from its server, which makes calls to Ecwid API. These apps can still utilize Storage endpoint for storing user data, see [Storage endpoint](#application-storage) for details.

## Store-specific custom JS

> Example of the script that dynamically loads store-specific code

```js
// Load external script with store
function loadConfig(ecwidStoreId, callback) {
  var script = document.createElement("script");
  script.setAttribute("src", '//example.com/myapp/store' + ecwidStoreId + '.js');
  script.charset = "utf-8";
  script.setAttribute("type", "text/javascript");
  script.onreadystatechange = script.onload = callback;
  document.body.appendChild(script);
}

// Application functionality
function doCoolStuff() {
  //...
}

// Get Ecwid store ID and start working
loadConfig(Ecwid.getOwnerId(), doCoolStuff);
```

In most cases, your application behavior will vary depending on the store it is opened in. Although Ecwid API allows you to specify only one JS file per application, your application can detect the current Ecwid store ID and act correspondingly. Use the `Ecwid.getOwnerId()` method to detect the user store ID in your script. 

For example, let's say you need to dynamically add a store-specific configuration to your script when it's executed in some particular storefront. You can detect the store ID in your script and call a script on your server containing the store-specific code. 

# Custom CSS

> Example of custom CSS to modify storefront

```css
/*
 * Change Ecwid buttons style 
 */
button.gwt-Button, #wrapper button.gwt-Button { 
  border-radius: 13px; 
  -moz-border-radius: 13px; 
  -webkit-border-radius: 13px; 
  height: 28px; 
  background-color: #e4e4e4; 
  padding: 0 15px; 
}  
 
button.gwt-Button:active,
#wrapper button.gwt-Button:active { 
  background-color: #999999; 
}  
 
div.ecwid-productBrowser-details-rightPanel div.ecwid-productBrowser-backgroundedPanel {
  min-width:185px; 
  width:auto; 
}
```

Ecwid provides a merchant with a built-in CSS customization tool in their control panel in the 'Design' section: Ecwid automatically loads the CSS code entered by user in their storefront. This allows merchants to customize their store look and feel flexibly. See also ["How to change Ecwid design"](http://help.ecwid.com/customer/portal/articles/1083332-how-to-change-ecwid-design) article in our knowledge base.

Ecwid API allows you to do the same in more convenient way: you simply specify the URL of file with your custom CSS code and Ecwid automatically loads that code in the user storefront. So you don't need to put the CSS on user site manually or ask them to do that. 

## Store-specific custom CSS
You may want to apply different CSS codes depending on the store your application is loaded. For example, if your application provides new design themes for merchant storefront, you may need to give a merchant ability to choose the theme they want to enable and change the applied CSS code according to their choice. 

In such cases, you will need to use custom JS files to dynamically detect merchant store ID and load different styles depending on the user store ID. See [Custom JavaScript](#custom-javascript) for details.
