includes/_libraries.md, before:

# Examples and libraries

#### Community libraries

#### HTML/JavaScript
* [Source code of Custom URL for "Thank you" page](https://github.com/Ecwid/custom-thank-you-page-app). Works as a storefront app with settings in Ecwid Control Panel (Native application)
* [Source code of a sample native application for Ecwid](https://github.com/Ecwid/sample-native-app). Use this sample app to start working on your native application interface and get to know Ecwid API. App itself can be installed [here](https://my.ecwid.com/cp/#apps:name=sample-native-app)

#### Ruby
* [A Ruby gem for the Ecwid REST API](https://github.com/davidbiehl/ecwid_api) by [David Biehl](https://github.com/davidbiehl)

#### PHP
* [A simple Ecwid oAuth2 client](https://github.com/Ecwid/ecwid-oauth2-client-php)
* [Alternative Ecwid OAuth 2.0 Client Provider](https://github.com/mugnate/oauth2-ecwid) for The PHP League OAuth2-Client with packagist support
* [Connect your app with MailChimp](https://github.com/jp26jp/Ecwid-Third-Party-App-MailChimp-Integration)

#### C#
* [C# services for Ecwid API](https://github.com/kroniak/extensions-ecwid)

<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />

Commit message:

Navigation improvements to overview sections of the Ecwid API Docs

includes/_libraries.md, after:

# Examples and libraries

Check out examples and libraries build for the Ecwid API platform by Ecwid and 3rd party developers. 

#### Community libraries

#### HTML/JavaScript
* [Source code of Custom URL for "Thank you" page](https://github.com/Ecwid/custom-thank-you-page-app). Works as a storefront app with settings in Ecwid Control Panel (Native application)
* [Source code of a sample native application for Ecwid](https://github.com/Ecwid/sample-native-app). Use this sample app to start working on your native application interface and get to know Ecwid API. App itself can be installed [here](https://my.ecwid.com/cp/#apps:name=sample-native-app)

#### Ruby
* [A Ruby gem for the Ecwid REST API](https://github.com/davidbiehl/ecwid_api) by [David Biehl](https://github.com/davidbiehl)

#### PHP
* [A simple Ecwid oAuth2 client](https://github.com/Ecwid/ecwid-oauth2-client-php)
* [Alternative Ecwid OAuth 2.0 Client Provider](https://github.com/mugnate/oauth2-ecwid) for The PHP League OAuth2-Client with packagist support
* [Connect your app with MailChimp](https://github.com/jp26jp/Ecwid-Third-Party-App-MailChimp-Integration)

#### C#
* [C# services for Ecwid API](https://github.com/kroniak/extensions-ecwid)

<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
