includes/_promo_api.md, before:

# Add Custom Discount

# Overview

Using Custom Discount API you can apply custom discounts to order total when customer is at checkout. This functionality will work in a form of an application that users install from the Ecwid App Market.

<aside class="notice">
Access scope required: <strong>customize_cart_calculation</strong> (see <a href="#access-scopes">Access scopes</a>)
</aside>

### Discount types examples

Using the Custom Discount API you are able to apply an absolute or percent discount to an order. While this sounds simple enough, it provides many possibilities and different ways for you to use it. 

It possible because Ecwid is sending almost full order information to your app URL, thus you can use any part of that information to return a discount back to a customer in a storefront based on certain conditions.

Here are few examples where Custom Discount API can be used: 

- **Customer loyalty**: if `customerGroup` is *VIP* then apply 5% discount
- **Special time limited promo**: if a current date is somewhere in a promo period (December 14-26), then apply $3 discount
- **Apply discount to category products**: if product in order belongs to *Sale* category, apply 3% discount
- **Bonus for using discount coupon**: if customer applied a special discount coupon, apply $10 discount
- **Local customer discount**: if customer location is in the same city as a store itself, make a *local discount* of $5 
- **Buy one get one free (BYGOF)**: if the two products are in cart, apply discount amount of 100% of free product price

And many more! 

# How to set up

When [registering a new application](/register) for Ecwid, specify the request URL for your application. Ecwid will be sending order details requests to that endpoint and expect discounts in a specific format in response.

# How it works

### 1. Ecwid sends order data to app request URL

To apply new discounts for an order in storefront, Ecwid will send a **POST request** to your endpoint with order details: items, customer address, merchant app settings, etc. That endpoint must respond to the request with the applied discounts for this order and store configuration.

### 2. Application returns discounts in a specific format

Ecwid will expect a response from your service within **5 second interval** to display additional discounts for an order. In the response, provide discount value, type of discount (percent or absolute) and discount description. See the response format in the [Request and response](#request-and-response) section.

### 3. Ecwid displays discounts at checkout

Based on the response from your app, Ecwid will display the discounts for customers on the cart page. Customer can view the amount and the reason for a discount that your solution sent to Ecwid. All the discount details will be saved for that order and they will be displayed in related order information.

#### Q: Can I create a UI for user to select and set different duscount rules?

After the installation, your app can add a page where they can configure it: provide their account details, set up discount rules, enable/disable rules, etc. We recommend using **Native apps** feature and the **Application storage** feature to provide this functionality. To manage and store those settings, see the [Advanced setup](#advanced-setup) section.

# Request and response

### Request

> Request from Ecwid example

```http
POST https://mycoolapp.com/discounts HTTP/1.1
```
```json
{
    "storeId": 35002,
    "merchantAppSettings": {
        "public":"{color : \"red\", storeName : \"Cool Socks Ltd.\"}",
        "dimensions": "5x10x7",
        "userId": "12345"
    },
    "cart": {
        "subtotal": 7.08,
        "ipAddress": "127.0.0.1",
        "couponDiscount": 0,
        "paymentStatus": "INCOMPLETE",
        "fulfillmentStatus": "NEW",
        "refererUrl": "https://mdemo.ecwid.com/",
        "orderComments": "Leave at the front porch.",
        "volumeDiscount": 5,
        "membershipBasedDiscount": 0.14,
        "totalAndMembershipBasedDiscount": 1,
        "discount": 6.14,
        "customerGroupId": 123456,
        "customerGroup": "Gold members",
        "customerId": 23649002,
        "discountCoupon": {
                "name": "Coupon # 3",
                "code": "5PERCENTOFF",
                "discountType": "PERCENT",
                "status": "ACTIVE",
                "discount": 5,
                "launchDate": "2014-06-06 00:00:00 +0000",
                "usesLimit": "UNLIMITED",
                "repeatCustomerOnly": false,
                "creationDate": "2014-09-20 19:58:49 +0000",
                "orderCount": 0
        },
        "discountInfo": [
            {
                "orderTotal": 1,
                "value": 5,
                "type": "ABS",
                "base": "ON_TOTAL",
                "membershipId": 0
            },
            {
                "orderTotal": 1,
                "value": 2,
                "type": "PERCENT",
                "base": "ON_MEMBERSHIP",
                "membershipId": 0
            },
            {
                "orderTotal": 1,
                "value": 1,
                "type": "ABS",
                "base": "ON_TOTAL_AND_MEMBERSHIP",
                "membershipId": 0
            }
        ],
        "handlingFee": {
            "name": "Handling Fee",
            "value": 0,
            "description": ""
        },
        "items": [
            {
                "weight": 1.2,
                "price": 2,
                "amount": 1,
                "productId": 65955001,
                "name": "Apple",
                "categoryId": 19175294,
                "sku": "30022537",
                "selectedOptions": [
                    {
                        "name": "Box type",
                        "value": "Big",
                        "valuesArray": [
                            "Big"
                        ]
                    }
                ]
            },
            {
                "weight": 0.3,
                "price": 5.08,
                "amount": 1,
                "productId": 66568001,
                "name": "Orange",
                "categoryId": 19175294,
                "sku": "02266183",
                "selectedOptions": null
            }
        ],
        "shippingAddress": {
            "street": "5th Avenue",
            "city": "New York",
            "countryCode": "US",
            "postalCode": "10002",
            "stateOrProvinceCode": "NY",
            "stateOrProvinceName": "New York"
        },
        "originAddress": {
            "street": "Columbus Street, 5",
            "city": "Idaho Falls",
            "countryCode": "US",
            "postalCode": "30135",
            "stateOrProvinceCode": "GA"
        },
        "weight": 1.5,
        "weightUnit": "lbs",
        "currency": "USD"
    }
}
```

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
storeId |  number | Ecwid store ID
merchantAppSettings | json | Merchant settings for your integration set up by your code. [More details](#advanced-setup)
cart | \<*CartDetails*\> | Offset from the beginning of the returned items list (for paging)

### CartDetails

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
subtotal |  number | Order subtotal
ipAddress | string  | Customer IP
paymentStatus | string |    Payment status. Supported values: <ul><li>`AWAITING_PAYMENT`</li> <li>`PAID`</li> <li>`CANCELLED`</li> <li>`REFUNDED`</li> <li>`INCOMPLETE`</li></ul>
fulfillmentStatus | string |    Fulfilment status. Supported values: <ul><li>`AWAITING_PROCESSING`</li> <li>`PROCESSING`</li> <li>`SHIPPED`</li> <li>`DELIVERED`</li> <li>`WILL_NOT_DELIVER`</li> <li>`RETURNED`</li></ul>
refererUrl | string | URL of the page when order was placed (without hash (#) part)
orderComments | string  | Order comments
couponDiscount | number | Discount applied to order using a coupon
volumeDiscount | number | Sum of discounts based on subtotal. Is included into the `discount` field
discount | number | The sum of all applied discounts **except for the coupon discount**. To get the total order discount, take the sum of `couponDiscount` and `discount` field values
membershipBasedDiscount | number | Sum of discounts based on customer group. Is included into the `discount` field
totalAndMembershipBasedDiscount | number | The sum of discount based on subtotal AND customer group. Is included into the `discount` field
discountCoupon | \<*DiscountCouponInfo*\> | Information about applied coupon
discountInfo | Array\<*DiscountInfo*\> | Information about applied discounts (coupons are not included)
customerGroupId | number | Customer group ID
customerGroup | string | The name of group (membership) the customer belongs to
handlingFee | \<*HandlingFeeInfo*\> | Handling fee details
customerId | number  | Unique customer internal ID (if the order is placed by a registered user)
items | Array\<*OrderItems*\> | Array of customer's order items with basic details
weight | number | Total weight of the order
weightUnit | string | Active weight units in the store at the moment of the request
currency | string | Active currency in the store at the moment of the request
shippingAddress | \<*ShippingAddressInfo*\> | Shipping address details (destination)
originAddress | \<*OriginAdressInfo*\> | Origin address details (departure)

#### OrderItems
Field | Type |  Description
--------- | -----------| -----------
productId | number | Store product ID
categoryId |  number  | ID of the category this product belongs to. If the product belongs to many categories, categoryID will return the ID of the default product category. If the product doesn't belong to any category, `0` is returned
price | number | Price of ordered item in the cart
weight |  number | Product weight
sku | string | Product SKU. If the chosen options match a combination, this will be a combination SKU.
amount |  number | Amount purchased
name |  string | Product name
selectedOptions | Array\<*OrderItemOption*\> | Product options values selected by the customer

#### OrderItemOption
Field | Type |  Description
--------- | -----------| -----------
name |  string | Option name
type |  string | Option type. One of: <ul><li>`CHOICE` (dropdown or radio button)</li><li>`CHOICES` (checkboxes)</li><li>`TEXT` (text input and text area)</li><li>`DATE` (date/time)</li><li>`FILES` (upload file option)</li></ul>
value | string | Selected/entered option value(s) as a string. For the `CHOICES` type, provides a string with all chosen values (comma-separated). You can use this to simply print out all selected values.
valuesArray | Array | Selected option values as an array. For the `CHOICES` type, provides an array with the chosen values so you can iterate through them in your app.
files | Array\<*OrderItemOptionFile*\> | Attached files (if the option type is `FILES`)

#### OrderItemOptionFile
Field | Type |  Description
--------- | -----------| -----------
id | number | File ID
name |  string | File name
size |  number | File size in bytes
url |   string | File URL

#### DiscountCouponInfo
Field | Type  | Description
----- | ----- | -----------
name |  string | Coupon title in store control panel
code |  string | Coupon code
discountType | string | Discount type: `ABS`, `PERCENT`, `SHIPPING`, `ABS_AND_SHIPPING`, `PERCENT_AND_SHIPPING`
status | string | Discount coupon state: `ACTIVE`, `PAUSED`, `EXPIRED` or `USEDUP`
discount | number | Discount amount
launchDate | string | The date of coupon launch, e.g. `2014-06-06 08:00:00 +0000`
expirationDate | string | Coupon expiration date, e.g. `2014-06-06 08:00:00 +0000`
totalLimit | number| The minimum order subtotal the coupon applies to
usesLimit | string | Number of uses limitation: `UNLIMITED`, `ONCEPERCUSTOMER`, `SINGLE`
repeatCustomerOnly | boolean | Coupon usage limitation flag identifying whether the coupon works for all customers or only repeat customers
creationDate |  string | Coupon creation date
orderCount | number | Number of uses
catalogLimit |  \<*DiscountCouponCatalogLimit*\> | Products and categories the coupon can be applied to

#### DiscountInfo
Field | Type | Description
----- | ---- | -----------
value | number | Discount value
type | string | Discount type: `ABS` or `PERCENT`
base | string | Discount base, one of `ON_TOTAL`, `ON_MEMBERSHIP`, `ON_TOTAL_AND_MEMBERSHIP`
order_total | number | Minimum order subtotal the discount applies to

#### HandlingFeeInfo
Field | Type | Description
----- | ---- | -----------
name | string | Handling fee name set by store admin. E.g. `Wrapping`
value | number | Handling fee value
description | string | Handling fee description for customer

### ShippingAddressInfo

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
street | string | Customer's street
city | string | Customer's city
countryCode | string | Customer's country code in Ecwid
countryName | string | Customer's country name in Ecwid
postalCode | string | Customer's postal code
stateOrProvinceCode | string | Customer's state or province code in Ecwid
stateOrProvinceName | string | Customer's state or province name in Ecwid

### OriginAdressInfo

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
street | string | Customer's street
city | string | Customer's city
countryCode | string | Customer's country code in Ecwid
postalCode | string | Customer's postal code
stateOrProvinceCode | string | Customer's state or province code in Ecwid

### Response

> Response to Ecwid example

```json
{
    "discounts": [
        {
          "value": 20,
          "type": "ABSOLUTE",
          "description": "T-shirt for free for orders over $100"
        },
        {
          "value": 10,
          "type": "PERCENT",
          "description": "10% off. Thanks for liking us on Facebook!"
        }
    ]
}
```

An array of JSON data of type 'CustomDiscounts' with the following fields:

### CustomDiscounts

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
**value** | number | Discount amount
type | number | Discount type: `ABSOLUTE` or `PERCENT`. Default is `ABSOLUTE`
description | string | Discount description

<aside class="notice">
Response parameters in <strong>bold</strong> are mandatory
</aside>

# Advanced setup

Your application can allow merchants to specify their own promo rule combinations or any other user preferences you may require. 

We recommend adding a new tab into the Ecwid Control Panel's Shipping settings for optimal experience - [Native applications](#native-applications) feature and the [Application storage](#application-storage) feature.

> Merchant settings example

> ![Merchant settings example](https://don16obqbay2c.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/shippingSettings-1468407629.png)

**Settings**

First, set up a new tab in Ecwid Control Panel, which will serve as a settings page for your users. This tab will load a page from your server in an iframe in a separate tab of Ecwid Control Panel. See [Native Applications](#native-applications).

When merchant is in the settings tab of your app, your code can create and modify the merchant settings using the **Application storage** feature. It's a simple `key:value` storage, which can serve you as an app database. For your convenience, you can access it [via Javascript](#javascript-storage-api) (client-side) or [Ecwid REST API](#rest-storage-api) (server-side).

**Request**

Once the settings are saved there, Ecwid will send them in a **POST request** to your application alongside order details when customer is at checkout stage. The request will contain **all data** from your application storage, including public and other keys that were specified. Use it to idetify the store and a user for the shipping rates.

You can also use the `public` key of the application storage to save data for accessing in the storefront. More details on how to handle such data: [Public application config](#public-application-config).

Please make sure **not to pass any sensitive user data in the public application config**, as this information will be available via Ecwid Javascript API to any 3-rd party. To save and get that kind of information, use any other key names in your application storage. They will be provided in a request to your application as well as public information, but not accessible in the storefront.

**Response**

After you get a request from Ecwid, your application endpoint should get its components and return correct rates back to the customer in a response.

Commit message:

Updates to Custom Discount API and Webhook section wording

includes/_promo_api.md, after:

# Add Custom Discount

# Overview

Using Custom Discount API you can apply custom discounts to order total when customer is at checkout.

<aside class="notice">
Access scope required: <strong>customize_cart_calculation</strong> (see <a href="#access-scopes">Access scopes</a>)
</aside>

### Discount types examples

Using the Custom Discount API you are able to apply an absolute or percent discount to an order. While this sounds simple enough, it provides many possibilities and different ways to use it in a store. 

Examples:

- **Customer loyalty**: when a customer from `customerGroup` *VIP* is at checkout, apply 5% discount
- **Limited-time offers**: enable or disable discounts based on a current date
- **Apply discount to select products**: when customer added a product from *Sale* category, apply 3% discount
- **Local customer discount**: if customer location is in the same city as a store itself, make a *local discount* of $5 
- **Buy one get one free (BYGOF)**: customer adds two specific products to cart, app applies absolute discount for the cost amount of one of those items

And many more! 

# How to set up

When [registering a new application](/register) for Ecwid, specify the request URL for your application. Ecwid will be sending cart details requests to that endpoint and expect discounts in a specific format in response.

# How it works

### 1. Ecwid sends cart data to app request URL

To apply new discounts for a cart in storefront, Ecwid will send a **POST request** to your endpoint with cart details: items, customer address, merchant app settings, etc. That endpoint must respond to the request with the applied discounts for this order and store configuration.

### 2. Application returns discounts in a specific format

Ecwid will expect a response from your service within **5 second interval** to display additional discounts for an order. In the response, provide discount value, type of discount (percent or absolute) and discount description. See the response format in the [Request and response](#request-and-response) section.

### 3. Ecwid displays discounts at checkout

Based on the response from your app, Ecwid will display the discounts for customers on the cart page. Customer can view the amount and the reason for a discount that your solution sent to Ecwid. All the discount details will be saved for that order and they will be displayed in related order information.

#### Q: Can I create a user interface for user to select and set different duscount rules?

After the installation, your app can add a page where they can configure it: provide their account details, set up discount rules, enable/disable rules, etc. We recommend using **Native apps** feature and the **Application storage** feature to provide this functionality. To manage and store those settings, see the [Advanced setup](#advanced-setup) section.

# Request and response

### Request

> Request from Ecwid example

```http
POST https://mycoolapp.com/discounts HTTP/1.1
```
```json
{
    "storeId": 35002,
    "merchantAppSettings": {
        "public":"{color : \"red\", storeName : \"Cool Socks Ltd.\"}",
        "dimensions": "5x10x7",
        "userId": "12345"
    },
    "cart": {
        "subtotal": 7.08,
        "ipAddress": "127.0.0.1",
        "couponDiscount": 0,
        "paymentStatus": "INCOMPLETE",
        "fulfillmentStatus": "NEW",
        "refererUrl": "https://mdemo.ecwid.com/",
        "orderComments": "Leave at the front porch.",
        "volumeDiscount": 5,
        "membershipBasedDiscount": 0.14,
        "totalAndMembershipBasedDiscount": 1,
        "discount": 6.14,
        "customerGroupId": 123456,
        "customerGroup": "Gold members",
        "customerId": 23649002,
        "discountCoupon": {
                "name": "Coupon # 3",
                "code": "5PERCENTOFF",
                "discountType": "PERCENT",
                "status": "ACTIVE",
                "discount": 5,
                "launchDate": "2014-06-06 00:00:00 +0000",
                "usesLimit": "UNLIMITED",
                "repeatCustomerOnly": false,
                "creationDate": "2014-09-20 19:58:49 +0000",
                "orderCount": 0
        },
        "discountInfo": [
            {
                "orderTotal": 1,
                "value": 5,
                "type": "ABS",
                "base": "ON_TOTAL",
                "membershipId": 0
            },
            {
                "orderTotal": 1,
                "value": 2,
                "type": "PERCENT",
                "base": "ON_MEMBERSHIP",
                "membershipId": 0
            },
            {
                "orderTotal": 1,
                "value": 1,
                "type": "ABS",
                "base": "ON_TOTAL_AND_MEMBERSHIP",
                "membershipId": 0
            }
        ],
        "handlingFee": {
            "name": "Handling Fee",
            "value": 0,
            "description": ""
        },
        "items": [
            {
                "weight": 1.2,
                "price": 2,
                "amount": 1,
                "productId": 65955001,
                "name": "Apple",
                "categoryId": 19175294,
                "sku": "30022537",
                "selectedOptions": [
                    {
                        "name": "Box type",
                        "value": "Big",
                        "valuesArray": [
                            "Big"
                        ]
                    }
                ]
            },
            {
                "weight": 0.3,
                "price": 5.08,
                "amount": 1,
                "productId": 66568001,
                "name": "Orange",
                "categoryId": 19175294,
                "sku": "02266183",
                "selectedOptions": null
            }
        ],
        "shippingAddress": {
            "street": "5th Avenue",
            "city": "New York",
            "countryCode": "US",
            "postalCode": "10002",
            "stateOrProvinceCode": "NY",
            "stateOrProvinceName": "New York"
        },
        "originAddress": {
            "street": "Columbus Street, 5",
            "city": "Idaho Falls",
            "countryCode": "US",
            "postalCode": "30135",
            "stateOrProvinceCode": "GA"
        },
        "weight": 1.5,
        "weightUnit": "lbs",
        "currency": "USD"
    }
}
```

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
storeId |  number | Ecwid store ID
merchantAppSettings | json | Merchant settings for your integration set up by your code. [More details](#advanced-setup)
cart | \<*CartDetails*\> | Offset from the beginning of the returned items list (for paging)

### CartDetails

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
subtotal |  number | Order subtotal
ipAddress | string  | Customer IP
paymentStatus | string |    Payment status. Supported values: <ul><li>`AWAITING_PAYMENT`</li> <li>`PAID`</li> <li>`CANCELLED`</li> <li>`REFUNDED`</li> <li>`INCOMPLETE`</li></ul>
fulfillmentStatus | string |    Fulfilment status. Supported values: <ul><li>`AWAITING_PROCESSING`</li> <li>`PROCESSING`</li> <li>`SHIPPED`</li> <li>`DELIVERED`</li> <li>`WILL_NOT_DELIVER`</li> <li>`RETURNED`</li></ul>
refererUrl | string | URL of the page when order was placed (without hash (#) part)
orderComments | string  | Order comments
couponDiscount | number | Discount applied to order using a coupon
volumeDiscount | number | Sum of discounts based on subtotal. Is included into the `discount` field
discount | number | The sum of all applied discounts **except for the coupon discount**. To get the total order discount, take the sum of `couponDiscount` and `discount` field values
membershipBasedDiscount | number | Sum of discounts based on customer group. Is included into the `discount` field
totalAndMembershipBasedDiscount | number | The sum of discount based on subtotal AND customer group. Is included into the `discount` field
discountCoupon | \<*DiscountCouponInfo*\> | Information about applied coupon
discountInfo | Array\<*DiscountInfo*\> | Information about applied discounts (coupons are not included)
customerGroupId | number | Customer group ID
customerGroup | string | The name of group (membership) the customer belongs to
handlingFee | \<*HandlingFeeInfo*\> | Handling fee details
customerId | number  | Unique customer internal ID (if the order is placed by a registered user)
items | Array\<*OrderItems*\> | Array of customer's order items with basic details
weight | number | Total weight of the order
weightUnit | string | Active weight units in the store at the moment of the request
currency | string | Active currency in the store at the moment of the request
shippingAddress | \<*ShippingAddressInfo*\> | Shipping address details (destination)
originAddress | \<*OriginAdressInfo*\> | Origin address details (departure)

#### OrderItems
Field | Type |  Description
--------- | -----------| -----------
productId | number | Store product ID
categoryId |  number  | ID of the category this product belongs to. If the product belongs to many categories, categoryID will return the ID of the default product category. If the product doesn't belong to any category, `0` is returned
price | number | Price of ordered item in the cart
weight |  number | Product weight
sku | string | Product SKU. If the chosen options match a combination, this will be a combination SKU.
amount |  number | Amount purchased
name |  string | Product name
selectedOptions | Array\<*OrderItemOption*\> | Product options values selected by the customer

#### OrderItemOption
Field | Type |  Description
--------- | -----------| -----------
name |  string | Option name
type |  string | Option type. One of: <ul><li>`CHOICE` (dropdown or radio button)</li><li>`CHOICES` (checkboxes)</li><li>`TEXT` (text input and text area)</li><li>`DATE` (date/time)</li><li>`FILES` (upload file option)</li></ul>
value | string | Selected/entered option value(s) as a string. For the `CHOICES` type, provides a string with all chosen values (comma-separated). You can use this to simply print out all selected values.
valuesArray | Array | Selected option values as an array. For the `CHOICES` type, provides an array with the chosen values so you can iterate through them in your app.
files | Array\<*OrderItemOptionFile*\> | Attached files (if the option type is `FILES`)

#### OrderItemOptionFile
Field | Type |  Description
--------- | -----------| -----------
id | number | File ID
name |  string | File name
size |  number | File size in bytes
url |   string | File URL

#### DiscountCouponInfo
Field | Type  | Description
----- | ----- | -----------
name |  string | Coupon title in store control panel
code |  string | Coupon code
discountType | string | Discount type: `ABS`, `PERCENT`, `SHIPPING`, `ABS_AND_SHIPPING`, `PERCENT_AND_SHIPPING`
status | string | Discount coupon state: `ACTIVE`, `PAUSED`, `EXPIRED` or `USEDUP`
discount | number | Discount amount
launchDate | string | The date of coupon launch, e.g. `2014-06-06 08:00:00 +0000`
expirationDate | string | Coupon expiration date, e.g. `2014-06-06 08:00:00 +0000`
totalLimit | number| The minimum order subtotal the coupon applies to
usesLimit | string | Number of uses limitation: `UNLIMITED`, `ONCEPERCUSTOMER`, `SINGLE`
repeatCustomerOnly | boolean | Coupon usage limitation flag identifying whether the coupon works for all customers or only repeat customers
creationDate |  string | Coupon creation date
orderCount | number | Number of uses
catalogLimit |  \<*DiscountCouponCatalogLimit*\> | Products and categories the coupon can be applied to

#### DiscountInfo
Field | Type | Description
----- | ---- | -----------
value | number | Discount value
type | string | Discount type: `ABS` or `PERCENT`
base | string | Discount base, one of `ON_TOTAL`, `ON_MEMBERSHIP`, `ON_TOTAL_AND_MEMBERSHIP`
order_total | number | Minimum order subtotal the discount applies to

#### HandlingFeeInfo
Field | Type | Description
----- | ---- | -----------
name | string | Handling fee name set by store admin. E.g. `Wrapping`
value | number | Handling fee value
description | string | Handling fee description for customer

### ShippingAddressInfo

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
street | string | Customer's street
city | string | Customer's city
countryCode | string | Customer's country code in Ecwid
countryName | string | Customer's country name in Ecwid
postalCode | string | Customer's postal code
stateOrProvinceCode | string | Customer's state or province code in Ecwid
stateOrProvinceName | string | Customer's state or province name in Ecwid

### OriginAdressInfo

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
street | string | Customer's street
city | string | Customer's city
countryCode | string | Customer's country code in Ecwid
postalCode | string | Customer's postal code
stateOrProvinceCode | string | Customer's state or province code in Ecwid

### Response

> Response to Ecwid example

```json
{
    "discounts": [
        {
          "value": 20,
          "type": "ABSOLUTE",
          "description": "T-shirt for free for orders over $100"
        },
        {
          "value": 10,
          "type": "PERCENT",
          "description": "10% off. Thanks for liking us on Facebook!"
        }
    ]
}
```

An array of JSON data of type 'CustomDiscounts' with the following fields:

### CustomDiscounts

Name | Type    | Description
---- | ------- | --------------
**value** | number | Discount amount
type | number | Discount type: `ABSOLUTE` or `PERCENT`. Default is `ABSOLUTE`
description | string | Discount description

<aside class="notice">
Response parameters in <strong>bold</strong> are mandatory
</aside>

# User interface for discount rules

You can create a user interface for merchants to specify their own promo rule combinations or any other user preferences you may require for your app. 

We recommend adding a new tab into the Ecwid Control Panel's promotion section for optimal experience using the: [Native applications](#native-applications) feature and [Application storage](#application-storage) features.

> Merchant settings example

> ![Merchant settings example](https://don16obqbay2c.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/shippingSettings-1468407629.png)

**Settings and User interface**

First, set up a new tab in Ecwid Control Panel, which will serve as a settings page for your users. This tab will load a page from your server in an iframe in a separate tab of Ecwid Control Panel. See [Native Applications](#native-applications).

When merchant is in the settings tab of your app, your code can create and modify the merchant settings using the **Application storage** feature. It's a simple `key:value` storage, which can serve you as an app database. For your convenience, you can access it [via Javascript](#javascript-storage-api) (client-side) or [Ecwid REST API](#rest-storage-api) (server-side).

**Request**

Once the settings are saved there, Ecwid will send them in a **POST request** to your application alongside cart details when customer is at checkout stage. The request will contain **all data** from your application storage, including public and other keys that were saved by the app. Use it to idetify the store and apply discounts accordingly.

You can also use the `public` key of the application storage to save data for accessing it in the storefront. More details on how to handle such data: [Public application config](#public-application-config).

Please make sure **not to pass any sensitive user data in the public application config**, as this information will be available via Ecwid Javascript API to any 3-rd party. To save and get that kind of information, use any other key names in your application storage. They will be provided in a request to your application as well as public information, but not accessible in the storefront.

**Response**

After you get a request from Ecwid, your application endpoint should get its components and return discounts back to the customer in a response.
